Al jaaz senior political analyst joins
us now VI sky from Paris it's a name
that Palestinians know very well and a
leader that they respect he's got a very
tough job to do if he's going to be a
negotiator while he's still in
Gaza yes absolutely it's a huge
Challenge and it's a huge
responsibility especially at a time of
War I should say at a time of genocide
against his own people while he is
resisting or hiding
in the tunnels in Gaza but there's one
thing about sinir that I'm not sure you
missed in your in your list of uh things
about him to really get to know him it's
very important to recall the last six
years from 2017 to 2023 until you know
when the October 7 attack happened for
six years he was the basically the the
you know the ruler he he governed Gaza
uh Gaza was uh a well-run machine uh
some people argue it was better run than
the West Bank under the peran authority
in the sense of the everything from uh
you know water and sewage and
electricity to uh security and Order
education uh medical and and and so on
so forth so here you had a leader of a
strip of more than two million people
basically under Israeli Siege and yet it
was B basically functioning so well that
even prime minister Nano thought that uh
you know this could be a good thing for
Israel and and he actually spoke in his
own cabinet in favor of supporting Hamas
in Gaza against the Palestinian
Authority in rala little he knew that
senoir was not uh you know uh was not
going to be satisfied with simply ruling
over an open air prison and that his
entire program was one of liberation
freedom for Palestine a full sovereignty
for Palestine and the return of the
refugees which of course are you know
most of the inhabitants in
Gaza and of course it has to be said
Marin that one man's terrorist is
another man's Freedom Fighter it's
something that the Israelis really can't
get their heads around and nor can many
you might say European capitals they
never have really with Hass have
they well you know if you remember well
we don't remember necessarily but
clearly you know much of the Jewish uh
underground back in the 1940s was called
terrorists by the British Mandate of
course they called themselves uh Freedom
Fighters while in fact they were
colonizers but be that as it may this
whole poisonous term terrorism doesn't
really tell us much actually it it uh it
uh it obscures more than it uh clarifies
in so many ways but yes now he is sort
of the the devil incarnate for Israel
for the past 10 months the the the ano
government has worked on the character
assassination so brilliantly that now
he's known in the world as you know some
form of a new Hitler or some kind
whereby never since the Holocaust have
you know Israel been beaten the way it
was in October 7 uh because of the kind
of operation that uh that sunir led but
once again uh you know uh as it's known
again in in in in uh in in all spheres
of Life there is action and reaction and
what happens in Gaza is a total reaction
to the Israeli occupation people in Gaza
are are resistant they are steadfast
they are
defiant notably by the election of uh of
senoir in in reaction to Israeli
occupation gen side and the
assassination of hania so you could say
that the election of sunir has come as a
reactions reactions in general are are
are not strategies right I mean they are
reactions and in so many ways so much
that happens to the Palestinians comes
in fact as a reaction to Israeli
continuous repression oppression uh
occupation illegal settlement
colonization and as of late war crimes
and genocide and the reactions by the
Palestinians is electing a very defiant
very you know steadfast leader who spent
many years in Israeli jails and who
today after 10 months of uh unraveling
genocide remains or is even more popular
among Palestinians uh than before well
we'll leave it there for now it's been
good to get your analysis on the current
developing news story man Bashar there
Al jazer senior political analyst